BUG/API: Indexes on empty frames/series should be RangeIndex (#49637)
pandas-dev/pandas: doc/source/whatsnew/v2.0.0.rst

   ser.astype("timedelta64[s]")
   ser.astype("timedelta64[D]")

.. _whatsnew_200.api_breaking.zero_len_indexes:

Empty DataFrames/Series will now default to have a ``RangeIndex``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Before, constructing an empty (length 0) :class:`Series` or :class:`DataFrame` without

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before, constructing an empty (where ``data`` is ``None`` or an empty list-like argument) :class:`Series` or :class:`DataFrame` without
```

From your explanation in this PR

Author: 👍

Reviewer: Oh looks like the suggested change wasn't updated in the PR?

Author: Hmm, There was some conflict when I rebased, meybe I inadvertly took it out again. But it's back in now.

   ser.astype("timedelta64[s]")
   ser.astype("timedelta64[D]")

.. _whatsnew_200.api_breaking.zero_len_indexes:

Empty DataFrames/Series will now default to have a ``RangeIndex``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When users instantiate :class:`DataFrame` or :class:`Series` objects without specifying the axes (``index=None``

> and/or ``columns=None``), pandas infers the index type for them. Previously, when instantiating

Reviewer: Is it critical to describe the inference of the index type here? IMO it appears the more important context here is when the constructed DataFrame or Series has length 0?

Author: Yeah, I'm a bit in doubt how to describe it. I'll try basing it on your text.

The change in this PR is (with index=None and/or columns=None):
1. if the data is dictlike (dicts, series etc) the index/columns will be inferred from the dict keys (unchanged functionality compared to before this PR)
2. if the data is listlike or None the index/columns will be inferred to `RangeIndex` (before `RangeIndex` was used in the the non-zero length case, while `Index` with object dtype was inferred in the zero-length case ).

This PR only deals with the second case and ensures a `RangeIndex` is always used there.

Reviewer: Got it, this explanation greatly helped me understand whats changing.

> if the data is listlike or None the index/columns will be inferred to RangeIndex

I think this would be key to include in the whatsnew entry

   ser.astype("timedelta64[s]")
   ser.astype("timedelta64[D]")

.. _whatsnew_200.api_breaking.zero_len_indexes:

Empty DataFrames/Series will now default to have a ``RangeIndex``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> When users don't specify indexes or columns when instantiating :class:`DataFrame` or :class:`Series`

Reviewer: Saw this in some tests: Based on `users don't specify indexes or columns` does e.g. `Series(index=[])` also now produce a `RangeIndex`?

Author: I only changed the case where `index=None`, so `Series(index=[]).index` is unchanged an `Index` with dtype=object. IMO `index=[]`should be inferred to `index=Index([])`...

Reviewer: Okay gotcha. Could you then clarify here that `users don't specify indexes or columns` explicitly means when `index/columns=None`

objects, pandas infers the index type for them. Previously, if it was not possible to
infer the index type from the data, pandas used to infer the index to be a :class:`RangeIndex`,
except when the frame/series was empty, then the index was inferred to be an :class:`Index`
with dtype ``object``.

This has been changed, so the type of index/columns will always be :class:`RangeIndex`,

> when users don't declare the index and it's not possible to infer the index type from the data (:issue:`49572`).

Reviewer: > infer the index type from the data

Does this refer to the `data` argument in `Series(data=..., )`, `DataFrame(data=...)`?

Author: Yes. It is maybe unclear if the paragraph points to the index data?

Reviewer: Yeah generally, these paragraphs were a little unclear to me

Is it fair to say:

```
Before, constructing an empty (length 0) Series or DataFrame without specifying the axes (index=None, columns=None) would return the axes as empty Indexes with object dtype. Now, the axes return an empty RangeIndex 
``` 

?

Author: 👍 . I can reword it. I’ll do it tomorrow, it’s quite late here now. Same with the other issue.
